Hi everybody and welcome back this lecture we're going to look at making arguments optional.
So so far we've all been required.
We're going to look now at making them optional.
So let's take a look and jump right in.
So as you can see I've amended my commentary making arguments optional so sometimes can make sense and
make an argument optional so that people using the function can choose to provide extra information
only if they want to we can use default values to make an argument optional.
Let's update our get formatted name to include a middle name.
So let's go.
So def format a name.
And so as we had previously first name middle name and now last name.
So just one update there.
Don't forget your colon and our quotes
return a full name.
So full name equals first name plus space plus middle name
plus space plus last name
and their return and spell it correctly this time not like our last lecture return phone name title
OK.
It's like we didn't the last one.
Teacher equals formatted name Tony
James which is my middle name name of my grandad started.
OK.
Print teacher.
Let's run us.
There we go.
Tony James Dandan neatly and cleanly formatted that this function can handle the first middle and last
name.
However middle names are not always needed and as this function is at the moment it would not work if
you try to use it without a middle name to make the middle name.
Option B can give the middle name argument an empty default value and ignore the argument unless it
is provided with a value the next code example we set the default value of a name to an empty string
and move it to the end of the list of parameters.
So let's have a look at exactly how we do it.
Well let's take this much code here so delete does.
So we're starting just the need to comment again.
Let's go.
So if middle name so if we got a middle name well then fullname
will be first name plus space plus middle name
space plus last name.
Otherwise else our full name is going to be first name plus space plus last name and then a return value
is going to be return phone name that title.
So right away we can handle it with or without a middle name.
OK now let's call our formatted names so teacher.
Just like last one.
Format a name.
So it's going to have Tony as a first name Staunton as a second name and know the word Name the middle
name sorry.
Well that's going to be James just like the last example.
But before we put that in we need make a change in the parameters of our function so we need to just
remove the middle name from here.
So let me just command an X that and now we need to put it in here and explain why now in a moment and
what we need to do is because middle name is optional.
We now need to give that an empty string.
And that's it don't now.
So middle name now its default value is an empty string so it's not provided for middle name but just
take an empty string value.
Here we finish this off with James and that's the middle name.
Now and the reason we've changed the order of these is because middle name may not often be provided.
Some users may or may not provide it.
And because of that we moved at the end of our function called the end of our arguments in our function
call.
OK so let's print teacher and let's see what we got.
There we go.
Tony James Staunton.
So Tony Stanton James so reordered into first name middle name last name.
OK so far so good.
So what happens when we don't have a middle name teacher equals former name.
Tony stander.
Here we go.
Let's see what that gives us like gives us an error because I am too ahead of myself and I forgot my
print statement.
And let's see what that gives us.
There we go.
Our second one here Tony Standen so we don't have to put an ad middle name the middle name is now a
default option for a user.
Optional values allow function to handle a wide range of user cases while letting function calls remain
as simple as possible.
So I hope all that made sense.
As always if you have any questions please not hesitate to contact me and I'll see you in the next lecture.
Thank you.